# Segmentation-HHO_Altruism
Official MATLAB implementation of the paper titled "Segmentation of Brain MRI using an Altruistic Harris Hawks' Optimization algorithm" under peer review in "Elsevier- Knowledge Based Systems.

Abstract: Segmentation is an essential requirement in medical image-based diagnosis for posterior analysis and disease identification. Efficient segmentation of brain Magnetic Resonance Images (MRIs) is of prime concern to the radiologists due to the poor illumination of the MRIs. Thresholding is a popular method for segmentation that uses the histogram of an image to label different homogeneous groups of pixels into different classes. However, the computational cost increases exponentially with an increase in the number of thresholds. In this paper, we perform multi-level thresholding using an evolutionary metaheuristic: an improved Harris Hawks Optimization (HHO) algorithm, combined with chaotic initialization and the concept of altruism. Further, for fitness assignment, we use a hybrid objective function where along with the cross-entropy minimization, we apply a new entropy function, and leverage weights to the two objective functions to form a new hybrid approach. The HHO is a meta-heuristic algorithm that solves myriad numerical optimization problems.  Earlier, the statistical results and comparisons have demonstrated that the HHO algorithm provides very promising results compared with well-established metaheuristic techniques. Also, altruism has been incorporated into the HHO algorithm to enhance its exploitation capabilities. We evaluate the proposed method on 10 benchmark images from the WBA database of the Harvard Medical School and 8 benchmark images from the Brainweb dataset using some standard evaluation metrics. The obtained results justify the superiority of the proposed approach compared to other state-of-the-art methods.

## Running the Code
Run: `Main.m` to run the code on the brain MRI data.
